# Main scripts used in the paper Multivariate brain-behaviour associations in psychiatric disorders

Abstract: Mapping brain-behaviour associations is paramount to understand and treat psychiatric disorders. The accessibility to large multimodal datasets has propelled a new wave of brain-behaviour studies that leverage on ‘doubly’ multivariate approaches, namely canonical correlation analysis (CCA) and partial least squares (PLS), capable of parsing the multivariate nature of both brain and behaviour simultaneously. We provide an overview of these methods, review the literature in psychiatric disorders, and discuss the main challenges from a predictive modelling perspective. We identified 37 studies across four diagnostic groups: attention deficit and hyperactive disorder (ADHD, k=4, N=569), autism spectrum disorders (ASD, k=6, N =1731), major depressive disorder (MDD, k=4, N =610), psychosis spectrum disorders (PSD, k=13, N =1150) and one transdiagnostic group (TD, k=10, N =5241). There were three main findings. First, most diagnoses shared a link between clinical/cognitive symptoms and two brain measures, namely frontal grey matter/BOLD activation and white matter association fibres. Second, typically less investigated behavioural variables in multivariate models such as physical health (e.g., BMI, drug use) and clinical history (e.g., childhood trauma) were identified as important features. Finally, most studies were at risk of bias due to low sample size/feature ratio and/or in-sample testing only. We highlight the importance of carefully mitigating these sources of bias with an exemplar application of CCA.
